Deontic

One of the functions of norms is to regulate the behavior of their subjects by imposing constraints on what the subjects can or cannot do, what situations are deemed legal, and which ones are considered to be illegal. There is an important difference between the constraints imposed by norms and other types of constraints. Typically, a constraint means that the situation described by the constraint cannot occur. For example, the constraint A means that if -A (the negation of A, that is, the opposite of A) occurs, then we have a contradiction, or in other terms, we have an impossible situation. Norms, on the other hand, can be violated. Namely, given a norm that imposes the constraint A, yet we have a situation where -A, we do not have a contradiction, but rather a Violation (see also the glossary), or in other terms we have a situation that is classified as "illegal". From a logical point of view, we cannot represent the constraint imposed by a norm simply by A, since the conjunction of A and -A is a contradiction. Thus we need a mechanism to identify the constraints imposed by norms. This mechanism is provided by modal (deontic) operators.

The operators of Obligation, Prohibition and Permission are typically considered the basic ones, but further refinements are possible, for example, two types of permissions have been discussed in the literature on deontic logic: weak permission (or negative permission) and strong permission (or positive permission). Weak permission corresponds to the idea that some A is permitted if -A is not provable as mandatory. In other words, something is allowed by a code only when it is not prohibited by that code [41]. The concept of strong permission is more complicated, as it amounts to the idea that some A is permitted by a code if and only if such a code explicitly states that A is permitted, typically as an exception to the prohibition of A or the obligation of its contrary, i.e., -A. It follows that a strong permission is not derived from the absence of a prohibition, but is explicitly formulated in a permissive (prescriptive) norm [1]. For example, an explicit permissive norm is a sign "U-turn permitted" at a traffic light, which derogates the (general) prohibition on U-turns at traffic lights.

